# Neural Audio Fingerprint Dataset
(c) 2021 by Sungkyun Chang
https://github.com/mimbres/neural-audio-fp

This dataset includes all music sources, background noise and impulse-reponses
 (IR) samples that have been used in the work ["Neural Audio Fingerprint for
 High-specific Audio Retrieval based on Contrastive Learning"]
 (https://arxiv.org/abs/2010.11910).

### Format:
16-bit PCM Mono WAV, Sampling rate 8000 Hz

### Description:
```
/
fingerprint_dataset_icassp2021/
├── aug
│   ├── bg         <=== Pub/cafe etc. background noise mix
│   ├── ir         <=== IR data for microphone and room reverb simulatio
│   └── speech     <=== English conversation, NOT USED IN THE PAPER RESULT
├── extras
│   └── fma_info   <=== Meta data for music sources.
└── music
    ├── test-dummy-db-100k-full  <== 100K songs of full-lengths
    ├── test-query-db-500-30s    <== 500 songs (30s) and 2K synthesized queries
    ├── train-10k-30s            <== 10K songs (30s) for training
    └── val-query-db-500-30s     <== 500 songs (30s) for validation/mini-search
```
### Data source:
  • Bacgkound noise from Audioset was retrieved using key words ['subway',
      'metro', 'underground', 'not music']
  • Cochlear.ai pub-noise was recorded at the Strabucks branches in Seoul by
      Jeongsoo Park.
  • Random noise was generated by Donmoon Lee.
  • Room/space IR data was collected from Aachen IR and OpenAIR 1.4 dataset.
  • Portions of MIC IRs were from Vintage MIC (http://recordinghacks.com/), and
      pre-processed with room/space IR data.
  • Portions of MIC IRs were recorded by Donmoon Lee, Jeonsu Park and Hyungui Lim
      using mobile devices in the anechoic chamber at Seoul National University.
  • All music sources were taken from the Free Music Archive (FMA) data set, 
      and converted from `stereo 44Khz` to `mono 8Khz`.
  • train-10k-30s contains all 8K songs from FMA_small. The remaining 2K songs
      were from FMA_medium.
  • val- and test- data were isolated from train-, and taken from FMA_medium.
  • test-query-db-500-30s/query consists of the pre-synthesized 2,000 queries
      of 10s each (SNR 0~10dB) and their corresponding 500 songs of 30s each.
  • Additionally, query_fixed_SNR directory contains synthesized queries with
    fixed SNR of 0dB and -3dB.
  • dummy-db-100k was taken from FMA_full, and duplicates with other sets were
     removed.

### License:
This dataset is distributed under the CC BY-SA 2.0 license separately from the
  github source code, and licenses for composites from other  datasets are
  attached to each sub-directory.
