This dataset contains more than 13,000 AI-generated key findings from scientific studies and industry reports about veganism, animal rights activism, marketing and other topics that may be useful for vegan businesses and animal rights activists.

We've made this dataset freely available so that it may benefit the wider movement as much as possible.

Each row in the CSV contains the title of the study, a link to the study and an AI-generated key finding from the study. Most key findings are a single sentence, while some are two or three, and all are written in natural, easy-to-understand language.

These AI-generated key findings were summarised from the abstracts of their respective studies using a combination of SciTLDR and our own specialised AI summarization model known as TLDR Vegan Studies, which is freely accessible here: https://huggingface.co/VEG3/TLDR-Vegan-Studies

There are some important limitations to consider before using this dataset. First, because each finding is generated by AI and not all have been manually approved by a human, there's no guarantee that 100% of the key findings generated are completely accurate. Second, there may be a bias in summary generation towards the kinds of results that can be found in the dataset used to generate the TLDR Vegan Studies model. Finally, because multiple different sources were used to collect studies for inclusion in this dataset, there are multiple key findings for the same study in many cases, and this may bias the overall dataset towards the result of studies that are more widely distributed.

We recommend using this dataset to get a broad overview of what the greater body of research says on the topics covered, rather than relying on it entirely to verify any particular factual claim. Depending on your use case, you might get the best results by deduplicating the dataset by title, URL and/or key finding before training any ML models on it.